NMS-13364: Table formatting issues in new docs (#3531)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/service-assurance/monitors/DnsMonitor.adoc

= DnsMonitor

This monitor tests the availability of the DNS service on remote IP interfaces.

> The monitor tests the service availability by sending a DNS query for A resource record types against the DNS server to test.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A DNS query is sent to check for a response of either an A or AAAA resource record.
```

> The monitor is marked as up if the DNS Server can send a valid response to the monitor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The monitor is marked as up if it receives a valid response from the DNS Server.
```

> For multiple records it is possible to test if the number of responses are within a given boundary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For hostnames that have multiple resource records, it is possible to test if the number of responses are within a given boundary.
```

To monitor the DNS resolution of some of your nodes from a client's perspective, use the <<service-assurance/monitors/DNSResolutionMonitor.adoc#poller-dns-resolution-monitor,DNSResolutionMonitor>>.

== Monitor facts

[options="autowidth"]
|===
| Class Name     | `org.opennms.netmgt.poller.monitors.DnsMonitor`
| Remote Enabled | true
|===

== Configuration and use

.Optional monitor-specific parameters for the DnsMonitor
[options="header"]
[cols="1,3,2"]
|===
| *Parameter* | *Description* | *Default*                                                                             
| retry                | Number of retries before the service is marked as down.                                    | 0
| timeout              | Time in milliseconds to wait for the A Record response from the server.                     | 5000
| port                 | UDP port for the DNS server                                                                  | 53
| lookup               | DNS A Record for lookup test                                                               | localhost
| fatal-response-codes | A comma-separated list of numeric DNS response codes considered fatal if

>                            present in the server's response. Default value is 2 and corresponds to `Server Failed`. See http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2929[RFC 2929] for a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                           present in the server's response.
                           Default value is 2 and corresponds to `Server Failed`.
                           See http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2929[RFC 2929] for a list of codes and their meanings.  | 2
```

>                            list of codes and their meanings.  | 2

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| min-answers          | Minimum number of records in the DNS server respone for the given lookup.                      | n/a
| max-answers          | Maximum number of records in the DNS server respone for the given lookup.                     | n/a
|===

This monitor implements the <<service-assurance/monitors/introduction.adoc#ga-service-assurance-monitors-common-parameters, Common Configuration Parameters>>.

== Example

> The example shows how to monitor whether the IP interface from a given DNS server resolves a DNS request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows how to monitor whether the IP interface from a given DNS server resolves a DNS request.
```
